CatalogReader is a graduation project that has been written by me and my friend Deniz Gül.
The purpose of this graduation thesis is to bring a new perspective to customer pre-shopping experience by building an infrastructure of a platform, which enables customers to reach current product offers. Advertising tools have become an advantageous research assistant for customers; however, customers might find it time consuming to check each advertising tool of different brands. For this reason, there is a need of a platform which enables customers to access all catalogs and their offers effortlessly. The designed platform in this thesis must store all product data in the catalogs in order to enable users to find the queried products quickly and easily. 

The program converts the pdf of the catalog into the images page by page at the first stage. Then, it reads all the pages and detects the text areas on them. After that, every detected area enters the preprocessing process for OCR in order to get more accurate results in OCR process. Py-tesseract converts the images of detected text areas into the string format in OCR process. Finally, the output of OCR process is transferred into a generated database. Basically, there are five columns in the database: the product data, he store in which the catalog is valid, the month in which the catalog is valid, page number, and the file name of the image of the page. 

We have focused on the three store in personal care and cosmetic sector; however, the program can also be used for other stores after adding their customized text detection and preprocessing functions into the program.
